Add documentation about the git support in Helm Broker (#5105)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/helm-broker/03-03-create-addons-repo.md

type: Details
---

The repository in which you create your own addons must contain at least one `index.yaml` file and have a specific structure, depending on the type of server that exposes your addons.

## The index yaml file

Your remote addons repository can contain many addons defined in index `.yaml` files. Depending on your needs and preferences, you can create one or more index yaml files to categorize your addons. In the `index.yaml` file, provide an entry for every single addon from your addons repository. The `index.yaml` file must have the following structure:
```
apiVersion: v1
entries:
  {addon_name}:
    - name: {addon_name}
      description: {addon_description}
      version: {addon_version}
```

See the example:
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
entries:
  redis:
    - name: redis
      description: Redis service
      version: 0.0.1
```

>**NOTE:** You must place your addons in the same directory where the `index.yaml` file is stored.

## Supported protocols

> Expose your addons repository through a remote server so that you can provide URLs in the [AddonsConfiguration](#custom-resource-addonsconfiguration) (AC) or [ClusterAddonsConfiguration](#custom-resource-clusteraddonsconfiguration) (CAC) custom resources. The Helm Broker supports exposing addons using the following protocols:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expose your addons repository so that you can provide URLs in the [AddonsConfiguration](#custom-resource-addonsconfiguration) (AC) or [ClusterAddonsConfiguration](#custom-resource-clusteraddonsconfiguration) (CAC) custom resources. The Helm Broker supports exposing addons using the following protocols:
```

  └── ...                                                    
```

See the example of the Kyma `addons` repository [here](https://github.com/kyma-project/addons/releases).

>**TIP:** If you contribute to the Kyma [`addons`](https://github.com/kyma-project/addons/tree/master/addons) repository, you do not have to compress your addons as the system does it automatically.

> These are the allowed addon repository URLs provided in CAC or AC custom resources in case of HTTP or HTTPS servers:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These are the allowed addon repository URLs provided in CAC or AC custom resources for HTTP or HTTPS servers:
```

    # HTTP protocol
    - url: "http://github.com/kyma-project/addons/releases/download/latest/index.yaml"
```

  </details>
  <details>
  <summary>
  Git
  </summary>

If you want to use Git, place your addons directly in addons directories. The repository structure looks as follows:
```
sample-addon-repository
  ├── {addon_x_name}-{addon_x_version}               # An addon directory
  ├── {addon_y_name}-{addon_y_version}        
  ├── ...                                      
  ├── index.yaml                                     # A file which defines available addons
  ├── index-2.yaml                              
  └── ...                                                    
```

See the example of the Kyma `addons` repository [here](https://github.com/kyma-project/addons/tree/master/addons).

You can specify a Git repository URL by adding a special `git::` prefix to the URL address. After this prefix, provide any valid Git URL with one of the protocols supported by Git. In the URL, you can specify a branch, commit, or tag version. You can also add the `depth` query parameter with a number that specifies the last revision you want to clone from the repository.

> >**NOTE:** If you use `depth` together with `ref`, make sure that `depth` number is big enough to clone a proper reference. For example, if you have `depth=1` and `ref` set to a commit from the distant past, the URL will not work as you clone only the first commit from the master and there is no option to do the checkout.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>**NOTE:** If you use `depth` together with `ref`, make sure that `depth` number is big enough to clone a proper reference. For example, if you have `depth=1` and `ref` set to a commit from the distant past, the URL will not work as you clone only the first commit from the `master` branch and there is no option to do the checkout.
```

> These are the allowed addon repository URLs provided in CAC or AC custom resources in case of Git:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These are the allowed addon repository URLs provided in CAC or AC custom resources for Git:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: addons.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterAddonsConfiguration
metadata:
  name: addons-cfg-sample
spec:
  repositories:

>     # Git HTTPS protocol with a path to index.yaml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # The Git HTTPS protocol with a path to index.yaml
```

    - url: "git::https://github.com/kyma-project/addons.git//addons/index.yaml"

>     # Git HTTPS protocol with a path to index.yaml of a specified version and depth query parameter

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # The Git HTTPS protocol with a path to index.yaml of a specified version and a depth query parameter
```

    - url: "git::https://github.com/kyma-project/addons.git//addons/index.yaml?ref=1.2.0&depth=3"

>     # github.com URL with no prefix. It is automatically interpreted as Git repository source.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # The github.com URL with no prefix. It is automatically interpreted as a Git repository source.
```

    - url: "github.com/kyma-project/addons//addons/index.yaml"

>     # bitbucket.org URL with no prefix. It is automatically interpreted as Git repository source.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # bitbucket.org URL with no prefix. It is automatically interpreted as a Git repository source.
```
